Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tannis C. The Senate Appropriations Committee has just reported out the Public Works Bill.
I've had the privilege as a member of the full committee and a member of the Public Works subcommittee, of working for several projects of great interest to our state, from the first time they came up for consideration.
In the case of one project, the Melton Hill Dam, we were able to have added to the final bill $1 million, which will mean that construction on this much-needed dam can begin next year.
The Melton Hill Dam will be a multipurpose dam providing means of manufacturing hydroelectric power, flood control and navigation.
General Vogel, the chairman of the TVA Board, testified before the subcommittee that a power shortage is expected during the winter of 1962-63.
Well, since the Melton Hill Dam will be located close to the principal user of TVA power, the Atomic Energy Commission at Oak Ridge, its completion just subsequent to that time will grow a long way, total alleviating a potential weak spot in our national defense.
The project will provide navigation on the clinch river, a tributary of the Tannis C. up to Clinton.
The waters impounded by the Melton Hill Dam will provide new recreational areas for several hundred thousand persons in the immediate vicinity, which includes the city of Knoxville.
In addition, the employment picture in this area will be improved tremendously through the jobs provided by this project construction.
For the Melton Hill Dam, $200,000 for planning was also included in the appropriation bill.
An item of great interest to those in the Carthage and on the Cumberland River section is $200,000 of new design and engineering money provided for the Cordell Hold Dam.
This money will be used to design navigational locks in this dam, which will be built at Carthage.
At another location on the Cumberland River, the $19 million budgeted for the Barclay Dam was retained by our committee.
While this dam is actually in Kentucky, the waters that impounds will back up well into Tannis C and provide miles and miles of recreational shoreline and will be important for navigation.
Looking now to West Tannis C, I'm delighted to be able to report that a total of a half a million dollars has been provided for flood works and drainage works in this part of our state.
At Memphis, the Wolf River has been a real problem for many years, flooding and making useless, much good, bottom, farm land and Shelby County for long periods of each year.
But $300,000 has been provided in the bill toward correcting this situation.
They want money will be used for engineering to begin the actual work of cutting a new channel through the Wolf River, far the Wolf River, to the Mississippi River at North Memphis.
Some of this money will also be used for cleaning out the Wolf's Channel Eastward from where this new channel will be built.
I know the residents of North Memphis and Frazier not to mention those downtown methians who work downtown will be glad to know that this project will eventually do much to eliminate the unpleasant odors for which the Wolf has been sometimes been famous.
And last but not least, certainly not least, I am pleased to report that $200,000 has been included for the West Tannis C drainage district.
This money will be used to start work on clearing and channel straightening on the Forkardere and O'Brien rivers.
This has been a long needed undertaking.
Thousands of acres of good farm land have been rendered useless or damaged by the floods on these tributaries of the Mississippi River.
Highways and roads have been completely blocked many times during high water periods.
But it's sum up about $1,700,000 of new monies for these vital Tennessee projects has been included in the Senate Appropriations Bill for Public Works.
These projects will be of great value to the areas which they serve.
And working on these projects, my colleague Senator Gore and I worked together, Melton Hill Dam is in the District of Congressman Baker and he has certainly been very active.
The Cordeaux Hall Dam is in Congressman Joe Evans District and he has on the Appropriations Committee has done much for it.
The West Tennessee drainage district is in Congressman Everett's and the Wolf Harbor District is in Congressman Davis.
They have all worked very hard for these projects.
Thank you and goodbye in the next week.